[[Machine Learning - Challenges, Limitations, and Compatibility for Audio Restoration Processes.pdf]]

## Abstract
In this paper, **machines learning networks** are explored for their **use in restoring degraded and compressed speech audio**. The project intent is to build a new trained model from voice data to learn features of compression artifacting (distortion introduced by data loss from lossy compression) and resolution loss with an existing algorithm presented in ‘**SEGAN: Speech Enhancement Generative Adversarial Network**’. The resulting generator from the model was then to be used to **restore degraded speech audio**. This paper details an examination of the subsequent compatibility and operational issues presented by working with deprecated code, which obstructed the trained model from successfully being developed. This paper further serves as an examination of the challenges, limitations, and compatibility in the current state of machine learning.


## IV. CONCLUSIONS 
Findings from SEGAN and other similar projects show the **viability of machine learning for audio processing tasks**. The flexibility of feature extraction could allow for models to dynamically learn features of audio, and inverse or directly apply these features. **Other potential implementations are nearly endless**. Resolution is a significant hurdle in using machine learning for audio restoration / upscaling tasks. The results are drastically more effective than any equivalent programmatic solution; however, resolution directly increases model processing resource demand. The nature of compromising resolution for processing logistics makes these tasks only viable with long processing times and significant compute power. If compute power International Conference on Computing, Computational Modelling and Applications ©2021 IEEE increases to a degree where these demands become trivial, neural networks will become viable as consumer grade systems that can be deployed and run with little to no configuration work, like modern web apps. Deprecated code and compatibility issues plague the usability of machine learning projects. Recent and supported projects require some work and knowledge to run, so depreciated projects complicate usability significantly.


# TLDR
Nie udało im się utworzyć modelu z powodu deprecated kodu i dużych wymogów obliczeniowych
Jest potrzebny dalszy research, próba z innymi implementacjami
**SEGAN (Generative Adversarial Network) wydaje się być op!!!**