[[Super-Resolution for Music Signals Using Generative Adversarial Networks.pdf]]

## Abstract
Super-Resolution (SR) refers to **increasing the resolution of a signal** in a variety of ways, conventionally employed in the field of image enhancement. Compared with the endeavors for super-resolution in image processing, music signals require supper-resolution to improve their quality or adapt to communication in narrow-band channel, which is also regarded as bandwidth expansion. To this end, **we shed light on super- resolution for music signals using the deep learning strategy of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)**. The proposed approach feeds Shot-Time Fourier Transform (STFT) features of low-band signals to the GAN, expecting to obtain their high-band information through jointly considering content and adversarial losses. Then, we carry out **experiments on MUSDB18 dataset using mixtures of music sources**, in order to show the performance of the proposed approach. **The experimental results indicate that the proposed approach achieves better super-resolution performances compared with interpolation and some conventional deep-learning strategies**.

## V. CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, we investigated super-resolution for music signals using a **Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) approach** in order to perform bandwidth expansion in producing high-fidelity music. In this regards, we performed experiments on MUSDB18 dataset with mixed sources of multiple sound tracks. The experimental results show that **the proposed GAN is superior to the conventional approaches including DNN and CNN**. Our future works may contain two aspects as follows: First, **we aim to further improve the performance on the basis** of the proposed approach through considering attention tricks. In addition, **it is also possible to investigate super-resolution for music signals in cross-domain conditions**.


# TLDR

Artykuł dotyczy zastosowania sieci generatywnych przeciwnych (GAN) do poprawy jakości sygnałów muzycznych poprzez zwiększenie ich rozdzielczości częstotliwościowej. Autorzy proponują metodę, która wykorzystuje spektogram logarytmiczny i fazę sygnału  i porównują ją z innymi podejściami opartymi na interpolacji - DNN i CNN. Autorzy skupiają się na nagraniach o ograniczonym paśmie lub zniekształconych przez szum.